# capstone

This project was part of my undergraduate thesis at Tulane University, under the direction of Dr. Doug Chrissey, for automatic classification of cell transfers in 3D bioprinting. Real time cell transfer validation through print ribbon image analysis would allow users to tune laser parameters time-efficiently, and reprint voxels that failed on the first attempt. Because the print ribbon dries out in approximately 30 minutes, manual examination through visual or microscope analysis takes valuable time away from printing and traversing the print ribbon to determine regions of interest. Current methods of cell transfer validation cost valuable time and decrease accuracy of printed constructs.

Eight print ribbon images were taken before and after cell voxel transfers. Data augmentation of cropping, rotation, mirroring and normalization resulted in 1344 samples with 67% negative and 33% positive samples.Features were extracted from print ribbon images using a pre-trained neural network GoogLeNet, inception v-3, and these features were classified using a support vector machine (SVM). Our radial kernel SVM classifier achieved 100% sensitivity, 71.5% specificity. Our second degree polynomial kernel SVM had an overall accuracy of 83%. The accuracy of this preliminary work shows feasiblity for a network trained on more images. The method could be expanded and implemented in a closed feedback loop to achieve consistent and reliable cell transfer, eliminating user guesswork and saving time.
